Braeburn Apples


Braeburn apples are medium to large in size and are oval in shape. 
The thin, bi-colored skin has a yellow base and is covered with red to pink blush and red striping. The striping and blush will vary in degree of visibility depending on the climate in which the fruit has matured. Its firm flesh is pale yellow to gold and contains a few dark brown seeds in the center of the fibrous core. 

Braeburn apples are very crisp and juicy with a sweet flavor combined with subtle hints of spice, pear, nutmeg, and cinnamon.

Braeburn apples are available late fall through early spring.

Braeburn apples, botanically classified as part of the Rosaceae family, were first discovered growing in the Braeburn Orchard in New Zealand in 1952. They are a chance seedling, which means they were not bred intentionally but were created by nature. The exact parentage of Braeburn apples is unknown, but they are believed to be a relative of the lady hamilton and granny smith apple, both varieties which were growing in the orchard where the Braeburn apple was first discovered. Braeburn apples are a modern variety that is known as an all-purpose apple and are valued for their strong flavor that rivals the classic apple cultivars.

Nutritional Value
Braeburn apples are a good source of fiber, vitamins A, and C, and contain trace amounts of boron and potassium, most of which are located in the apple's skin.

Applications
Braeburn apples are best suited for both raw and cooked applications such as baking and roasting. When raw, the apples can be sliced and added to salads and sandwiches or served on a cheese board or fruit platter. 
The sweet-tart flavor of the Braeburn apple mellows just slightly when cooked and will compliment both sweet and savory preparations. 
They can be roasted along with root vegetables, sautéed and served atop pork, or slow cooked and pureed to make sauces, jams, and preserves. Braeburn apples hold their shape well when cooked. 
They can be baked into pies, crisps, tarts, cakes, and galettes or hollowed and stuffed to make baked apples. Chopped Braeburn apples will also add sweetness and texture to bread, pancakes, and muffins. Braeburn apples pair well with cheese such as gouda and camembert, cinnamon, and salted caramel. They will keep up to a month when stored in the refrigerator.