Rainier Cherries


Rainier cherries distinguish themselves from all other cherry varieties by the color of their skin and their unparalleled high sugar levels. Their coloring exhibits layers of golden hues blushed with tones of pink and red, an unequivocally unique facade. Their shape is quintessential cherry: plump, rounded and slightly heart-shaped with a dimple at the stem end. The flesh is a pale golden color with red streaks near the skin and seed. 

The flavor of Rainier cherries is memorably sweet and low acid with a caramel-like finish on the palate.

Rainier cherries are available during late spring and summer.

All cherries are members of the family, Prunus and are descendents of the wild cherry, Prunus avium. They are classified as stone fruits, alongside apricots, plums, peaches and almonds. Stone fruits are climacteric in nature, which means the fruit continues to ripen post-harvest. The Rainier cherry is a hybrid of two very sweet, red varieties, the Bing cherry and Van cherry. Photosynthesis, the process of creating glucose, is a cherry tree's most important job.  Rainier cherry trees create high levels of glucose in the fruit, thus they measure high on the Brix scale, which measures the percentage of sugar content in a fruit.  A 24%-28% Brix measurement is the common percentage for Rainier cherries and one of the highest of all stone fruit.

Nutritional Value
Rainier cherries are a good supply of vitamins A and C, calcium and potassium.

Applications
Rainier cherries are best for fresh eating or as an ingredient in desserts such as ice cream, cakes, pies, pastries and tarts. Sweet pairings include other stone fruit, especially apricots and plums, berries, vanilla, cinnamon, nutmeg, dark chocolate and white chocolate, cream, maple and almond. Complimentary savory pairings include herbs such as basil and arugula, cilantro flowers, hazelnut, pistachio and olive oil, citrus, smoked fish, anchovies, pork, chiles, ginger, pepitas, pine nuts, scallops, fresh cheeses such as chevre and burrata and aged sheep's and cow's milk cheeses.