Lemons


Lemons are small to medium fruits, averaging 5 to 12 centimeters in length, and have an ovate to oblong shape with pointed, curved ends. The rind, also known as the peel, is generally pale to bright yellow and bears many small, fragrant oil glands, creating a textured and glossy, finely pitted surface. Underneath the rind, there is a semi-thin, white pith with a spongy, cotton-like consistency, encasing 8 to 11 segments of soft, tender flesh. The pale-yellow flesh is comprised of translucent sacs filled with juice and pulp, and some Lemon varieties contain a few seeds, while other cultivars are found seedless. 

Lemons will vary in texture and flavor, depending on the variety, but the fruits are known for their complex, bright, and acidic flavors with floral, sweet-tart, and tangy undertones.

Lemons are available year-round.

Lemons are ancient, aromatic fruits that grow on evergreen trees reaching between 3 to 10 meters in height, belonging to the Rutaceae family. The name Lemon is a descriptor used to encompass many different varieties of flowering plants with fruits, and true Lemons, or Lemons that are primarily found in modern-day markets, are botanically classified as Citrus limon. Lemons are among the most common types of citrus commercially produced and grown in home gardens worldwide, highly favored for their acidic, sour flavoring and sweet, aromatic scent. The fruits are not typically consumed as fresh-eating citrus, but the oils, juice, and rind have been traditionally incorporated into culinary, medicinal, and household applications for thousands of years. Within the Citrus limon species, Eureka and Lisbon Lemons are the two main varieties grown for commercial use in North America. These cultivars are sold and utilized interchangeably year-round in grocery stores under the general Lemon name.

Nutritional Value
Lemons are an excellent source of fiber to stimulate the digestive tract and vitamin C to strengthen the immune system, boost collagen production within the skin, and reduce inflammation. The fruits are also a good source of potassium, copper, vitamin B6, calcium, magnesium, and iron. In addition to vitamins and minerals, Lemons have been used in traditional medicines as a natural diuretic, bleaching agent, and as a protective medicine against some infections and diseases such as scurvy.

Applications
Lemons are versatile fruits utilized as a flavoring in both raw and cooked, sweet and savory applications. The fruits can be sliced and used as an edible garnish with roasted meats, tacos, or wedged on the side of beverages, and the slices can be squeezed as a finishing element. Lemons can also be juiced and used to cut through rich flavors in salad dressings, dips, marinades, and sauces, or it can be used to brighten soups, whipped cream, and rich, cheesy pasta dishes. Beyond savory preparations, Lemons are used as a flavoring for baked goods, including pies, cakes, muffins, and tarts, or the juice is mixed into puddings, icings, sherbet, bars, marmalades, and curds. It is important to note that Lemon juice can be found in many forms, utilized fresh, thawed from frozen, or blended with other ingredients from concentrate and cans. In addition to the juice, the peel can be zested for cookies, salads, grain bowls, or meats, or it can be sliced and candied as a sweet dessert. Lemon zest and juice are also used to accent cocktails, lemonades, sparkling waters, and other beverages. In African and Middle Eastern countries, Lemons are preserved in salt and are eaten as a sweet and sour condiment. Lemons pair well with aromatics such as garlic, onions, and capers, cheeses such as parmesan, mozzarella, and gruyere, potatoes, other fruits such as nectarines, peaches, and pears, herbs such as parsley, mint, rosemary, and thyme, vanilla, and meats such poultry, turkey, and fish. Whole, unwashed Lemons will keep for a couple of days at room temperature and 1 to 2 weeks when stored in a plastic bag in the crisper drawer of the refrigerator. Freshly squeezed juice will also last up to 2 weeks in the fridge. When frozen, the juice will keep for 3 months.
