Mangosteen


Wild Mangosteen vary in size from small to medium, averaging 4-8 centimeters in diameter, and are ovate to globular in shape. The peel is rough, slightly fuzzy, ripens from green when immature to yellow-orange when mature, and contains dark brown spots and markings. Underneath the peel, the rind is thick or thin, depending on the variety, and ranges in color from yellow to orange with a crisp texture. The firm flesh also encases a juicy, white, cotton-like pulp containing 3-5, flat, thin inedible seeds that are tightly adhered in the pulp. 

Wild Mangosteen is crisp with a sweet and slightly sour flavor.

Wild Mangosteen is available in the summer.

Wild Mangosteen, botanically classified as Sandoricum koetjape, are tart fruits found on fast-growing, evergreen trees that can reach up to forty-five meters in height and are members of the Meliaceae family. Also known as Santol, Setoi, and Cotton fruit, Wild Mangosteen trees grow in humid, tropical regions of Southeast Asia and there are two main varieties, one gold, and one red, that vary in size, thickness, and levels of sweet and sour flavors. Wild Mangosteen has become somewhat rare in the market due to deforestation and is harvested from the trees by hand. The fruits are chosen for their sweet and sour taste and are often consumed raw with added seasonings or are used as a flavoring agent for cooked applications.

Nutritional Value
Wild Mangosteen contains vitamins A and C, calcium, magnesium, iron, potassium, phosphorus, and fiber.

Applications
Wild Mangosteen can be consumed raw, but the peel is inedible and must be peeled or discarded. The seeds inside the pulp are also inedible and should be discarded after the pulp is consumed. The fruit is popularly sliced or chopped into pieces and is coated in soy sauce, shrimp paste, salt, chile powder, or sugar for a sweet, bitter, and salty fresh salad known as rujak in Asia. The fruit can also be cooked into jams, marmalades, and preserves, used as a souring agent in soups and stews, or candied for extended use. In the Philippines, Wild Mangosteen is popularly minced and cooked in a spicy coconut milk broth with ground pork and served over rice. In Thailand, the fruit can be added as a twist on the classic dish som tam, which is a green papaya salad, or it can be cooked into curries. Wild Mangosteen is highly perishable and will keep less than one week when stored in the refrigerator.