White Onions


White Pearl onions are small in size, averaging 1-4 centimeters in diameter, and are globular in shape with slightly pointed ends. The petite bulb is covered in a white, thin, papery, parchment that easily flakes off when touched. Underneath the papery skin, there is a white sheath, similar to garlic, and the flesh is white, almost translucent with layers of thin rings. The flesh is firm, juicy, and crisp. 

White Pearl onions are crunchy and mild developing a savory, sweet, and slightly less pungent flavor than full-sized onions when cooked.

White Pearl onions are available year-round.

White Pearl onions, botanically classified as Allium cepa, are tiny, young onions that are members of the Amaryllidaceae family. Also known as Cocktail onions, Picklers, Baby onions, and Button onions, White Pearl onions are grown from regular onion varieties including Crystal Wax and White Bermuda. The small onions get their size by being planted in dense clusters to inhibit growth, are harvested early approximately ninety days after planting, or are planted in environments that may stunt growth due to sunlight and temperature conditions. White Pearl onions are slightly smaller than boiler onions and are the most popular and common Pearl onion variety. Favored for their sweet, mild nature, White Pearl onions will not overpower dishes and can be used in a variety of culinary applications.

Nutritional Value
White Pearl onions contain vitamin C, vitamin A, potassium, calcium, fiber, and flavonoids.

Applications
White Pearl onions are best suited for both raw and cooked applications such as creaming, roasting, pickling, and glazing. The small bulbs are most commonly used whole, and the skins can be peeled by boiling for two minutes, dropping in ice water, cutting off the ends, and then pinching the flesh out from under the skin. White Pearl onions can be incorporated into stews, gratins, casseroles, and braises, used to flavor soups and stocks, glazed and served alone, or added to roasted meats and vegetables as a hearty side dish. When pickled, White Pearl onions can be added to salads, garnished on cocktails, or served on appetizer plates. They can also be skewered with meat and vegetables and grilled for a smoky, caramelized finish. White Pearl onions pair well with parsley, basil, Dijon mustard, potatoes, green beans, peas, beets, turnips, tomatoes, paprika, red wine, light bodied vinegars, meats such as pork, poultry, turkey, veal, steak, and white fish, goat, cheddar, and aged sheep’s cheese, and cream-based sauces such as béchamel. The bulbs will keep 1-2 months when stored in a cool, dry, and dark place with good air circulation. If sliced, the remaining pieces will keep up to four days when wrapped in plastic and stored in the refrigerator.
