Oranges


Oranges are small to medium in size, averaging 5-10 centimeters in diameter, and are globular, oblate, or oval in shape. The rind ranges in color from orange, yellow, to green and is smooth with a leathery texture, dotted with many small oil glands across the surface that produce fragrant essential oil. Underneath the rind, there is a thin layer of white pith that is bitter and spongy. The flesh is juicy, also ranges in color from red, orange, to yellow, is filled with tightly packed pulp and juice sacs, and is divided into 10-14 segments by thin membranes. The flesh, depending on the variety, may also contain a few cream-colored seeds. 

Oranges are aromatic, juicy, and vary in flavor from sweet, acidic, tart, to sour.

Oranges are available year-round, with peak season in the winter through summer.

Oranges, botanically a part of the Rutaceae or citrus family, are colorful fruits that grow in subtropical climates on evergreen trees that can reach up to fifteen meters in height. Recognized as one of the most popular cultivated fruit trees in the world, Oranges are not one of the original citrus species that occur in the wild and are a cultivated hybrid of pomelos and mandarins. There are over six hundred varieties of Oranges that can be divided into three main types including the sweet orange, mandarin orange, and sour orange. Some of the more commercially-important varieties include Washington navel, Valencia, Satsuma, and Seville. Despite the popular belief that they earned their name from the color of their skin, Oranges earned their name from the Sanskrit word naranga, meaning fragrant. This word was then known as narang in Arabic and was incorporated into the English language from the French word orenge. Oranges are favored by chefs, home cooks, and gardeners for their aromatic oils, bright zest, and sweet-tart juice and are incorporated into both sweet and savory applications.

Nutritional Value
Oranges are an excellent source of vitamin C, fiber, potassium, and have anti-inflammatory properties. They also contain some calcium, vitamin A, manganese, iron, copper, and magnesium.

Applications
Oranges are best suited for both raw and cooked applications but are showcased when used fresh, out of hand. The fruit can easily be peeled, segmented, and served as a stand-alone snack, or it can be tossed into green salads, fruit salads, and fruit cups. The juice is also commonly used and can be consumed fresh in smoothies, cocktails, soups, and gelatins. In addition to savory preparations, Orange juice can be used to flavor cakes, muffins, cookies, granola, soft-drinks, and candy. The zest of the Orange can be used to add flavor to meats, fish, and stir-fries. In South America, Oranges are boiled in sweetened water and poured over toast to create a unique soup. Oranges pair well with strawberries, pineapple, grapes, walnuts, pecans, light balsamic, kale, carrot, fennel, beets, potatoes, winter squash, cinnamon, cumin, ginger, onions, garlic, fish such as salmon, tuna, and mahi-mahi, and meat such as poultry, beef, and pork. The fruits will keep up to two weeks when stored in a cool and dark place and can be stored in the refrigerator, loosely wrapped in plastic.
