Pineapples


Pineapples have the shape of a pinecone, and can reach up to 30 centimeters in length. They have a rough, waxy, hexagonal-patterned rind that is covered in small, soft spikes and topped with a compact grouping of narrow, green, pointed-tipped leaves that extend upright. The rind can range in color from green to yellow or reddish-orange when ripe. The flesh varies in shades of white or yellow, depending on the variety, and modern cultivated varieties are known to be seedless. 

The loosely fibrous and juicy flesh offers a sweet flavor with mild acidity, while the edible core is firmer, more leathery, and less sweet.

Pineapples are available year-round with a peak season in the spring and summer months.

Pineapples are botanically classified as Ananas comosus, and are the only plant in the Bromeliaceae family with edible fruit. They are generally grouped into four main types: Smooth Cayenne, Red Spanish, Queen, and Abacaxi, with hundreds of sub-varieties. Pineapple isn’t technically a single fruit, but rather a collection of many small berries. As those individual berries develop from the plant’s flowers, they fuse together around the fruit stem in the center of the plant to form the pineapple, while the stem itself serves as the fruit’s core. This occurrence of clustering fruits is known as a syncarp, with other familiar syncarps including raspberries and mulberries.

Nutritional Value
Pineapple is a good source of dietary fiber and vitamin C, as well as some iron and calcium. The pineapple’s core contains high levels of an enzyme called bromelain, which is said to be an effective anti-inflammatory, muscle relaxant, and digestive aid. Bromelain even has chemicals that have been shown to interfere with the growth of tumor cells.

Applications
Pineapples can be used raw or cooked. To prepare the pineapple for use, cut off the top and the base, stand the pineapple upright and slice away the skin in a downward vertical motion. The core can be left in or removed depending on preference, though it is edible, and can even be pressed for juice. Raw pineapple can be eaten as is, and also juiced or pureed for smoothies and fruit cocktails, like a pina colada. Fresh pineapple can be roasted, grilled, or baked for desserts, including pineapple upside-down cake. It can also be cooked and sweetened as a topping for custards and cheesecakes. Try dicing and pairing fresh pineapple with tomato, herbs and chilies for a salsa to accompany seafood. The enzyme, bromelain, contained in pineapples helps break down proteins, and hence pineapple juice is often used as a marinade for meats, especially pork. Fresh pineapple is highly perishable, and if kept at room temperature it should be eaten within a couple days. Store in the refrigerator to extend its shelf life up to 5 days. Fresh, cut pineapple can be covered in its natural juice and stored in an airtight container in the refrigerator for 5 to 7 days, or frozen for up to about 6 months.
